Disney characters just give you the warm
and fuzzies. I don't know what it is.
No, they do. They're timeless.
They've been around for so long.
Who are your favorite characters?
Oh, I love Minnie.
My daughter Eliza was so happy
when we'd go to the parks
and she'd seen Minnie
Classic. Who's your favorite?
My favorite? Ariel.
Oh, I feel like I always,
you know, she was curious.
She finds her voice. Yeah.
This is Disney, but so is this.
This is the way
And this
and even this, I love a little chaos.
In other words, Disney
contains multitudes.
The company controls some
of the most valuable IP
and distribution channels
in entertainment history
and rakes In more than $90 billion a year,
Exterior, daytime, Los
Angeles. Enter Dana Walden,
co-chair of Disney Entertainment
and our guide to the magic kingdom.
Our stories have appealed
to kids for a hundred years.
The pull of a Disney story
is tremendous. She spent
26 years at Fox where she
took the network from fourth
to first with hit shows
like Glee and Empire,
and she's widely seen as one
of Hollywood's savviest
executives with a powerful web
of talent relationships.
But even veterans like
Walden are facing challenges.
As revenues from traditional
TV and movie theaters
decline, sudios are battling
for market share in the
growing business of streaming.
On top of all that, political
challenges have put Disney
and its subsidiaries like
ABC in the spotlight.
At what point did you realize
this was a problem? When they
pulled the show off the air?
The stakes are high for Disney
and for Walden, who's
one of a few candidates
with a shot at succeeding
longtime CEO, Bob Iger.
That would certainly
be a fairytale ending.
But first, she needs
to help keep this iconic brand
from turning into a pumpkin.
Is the golden age of
entertainment behind us,
or is the best still yet to come?
You grew up in LA
I did.
What drew you to Hollywood?
Well, it's actually
funny. I grew up about
four miles from here.
My mom was in musical theater.
She was a performer
and we watched a lot of
TV together as a family.
And then I remember when I was 12,
my parents switched out
the TV in the living room
and got a new one, and I
somehow convinced my mother
to let me put the old one in my room.
I didn't come out for about five years.
You landed a PR job at 20th Century Fox.
I did
1992.
Not withstanding that
I came in on the PR side,
I really had a passion for
storytelling and creativity.
I oversaw different businesses,
but my heart was really always
with our television studios,
Chris Carter, on the X-Files, you know,
Jim Brooks on The Simpsons.
They really taught me how
to understand storytelling
and production
and it led to a 26 year career at Fox. So,
Netflix kicks off the streaming boom.
It takes Disney six years to
get into streaming launches.
Disney Plus in 2019 buys
Fox to try to catch up.
That's when you enter the scene.
Did you feel like you
were starting from behind?
I didn't really at the time I thought,
what an amazing opportunity
to join a company,
which is the gold
standard in storytelling.
Bob was so interested in
acquiring those Fox assets
because we had many, many
seasons of the types of shows
that built the foundation
of Netflix subscriber base,
and Disney Plus launched
with I think 10 million
subscribers in the first 24 hours.
What makes you think consumers
are gonna pay for this?
On top of everything else,
they're already paying for
Disney, Pixar, Marvel, Star
Wars, National Geographic,
So we did not feel by any
stretch that we were behind.
Walden joined Disney as co-chair
of the entertainment division
focusing on TV shows while
Alan Bergman oversees feature films.
But entertainment is only one
piece of the Disney Empire.
There's also experiences, parks
and cruises and sports, ESPN
and all of Disney's pieces work together.
Popular IP from entertainment
gets translated into
experiences and products
forming the Disney flywheel,
a uniquely powerful system
for generating revenue across the company.
So you oversee now one
of the largest creative portfolios
in the world between Hulu
and Disney Plus and FX and ABC.
How do you see all these
pieces fitting together
inside the Disney universe?
We have such a vast array of stories
and when we think about
our distribution ecosystem,
we think about it as an
integrated television business
or an integrated entertainment business.
Which leads to the question
of our linear channels.
You know, live is really
a specialty of linear
and of broadcast television
and Dancing With the Stars is
up something incredible like
60%.
And I think that's a combination
of we're simulcasting it
across our streaming services
and ABC.
Younger subscribers are
watching it on Disney Plus,
we're serving fans wherever
they wanna watch our shows.
Overseeing such a broad array
of shows requires a certain
skill at managing talent.
Hence the montage of famous faces.
Walden has helped bring some
of the biggest stars on
earth into the Disney verse.
Enter Megastar. Hi. Hi.
How are you? I'm Emily
Good to see you. Bringing the Kardashians
to Hulu was an early coup
for Walden's Disney tenure.
Their refreshed reality series,
the Kardashians premiered on Hulu in 2020
and quickly became one of
the streamers biggest hits.
Obviously you had a long
and super successful run at NBC Universal.
What does being inside Disney make
possible that wasn't before
You get one free crazy
VIP Disney experience
for every cast member for free a year.
That's pretty amazing, but
it's just a great place to be.
It's super supportive.
You were looking for
a new home for the show.
Yes, and Disney and Dana Walden came
kocking.
It was the next evolution
of us maybe elevating our show,
giving it a different look,
being able to continue what we were doing,
but having a different experience.
What is Kris Jenner
like in a negotiation?
I think I'm tough, but I
think I'm firm. I'm direct.
I think I know what we want by now.
Sometimes I, I get a giggle
when an offer comes in
and I'm able to, you know,
double what just came in at us
and you know, kind of
say, see, I, you know, I,
I still might have it, you
know, mom still might have it.
Kim Kardashian is also
making her move into scripted
series starring in Hulu's All's Fair,
a new legal drama from prolific
showrunner. Ryan Murphy
We'll make you full partner
and a multimillionaire within two
years.
The show hasn't exactly
been a critical darling,
but it had a global press tour
and premiered to decent ratings.
Ryan Murphy came up with this concept,
just we were brainstorming of a show to do
and he knew about my law school journey
and thought that it would
be the best idea to come up
with like an all female cast
of family law attorneys.
I know Ryan wanted to make
sure that I felt comfortable,
but a little outside of my normal self.
So he really worked hard to
write a character that he knew
that I could play.
I've just been that personality type
where I wanna figure it out.
I, I really do enjoy growing and learning.
When I stop is like when life
will get a little boring.
I love a little chaos.
Murphy previously
worked with Walden at Fox,
then landed a big deal
making shows for Netflix
before Walden brought
him into the Disney fold.
You and Dana Walden go
back to the Nip Tuck days.
What's your relationship like with her?
In the case of like All's
Fair, she read every script.
She gave me a lot of
notes, which you know,
I love, I love a note.
Well I really don't, but she
did give me a lot of input.
You know, I did like seven
different cuts of that pilot
for her because her thing
with talent is don't give up,
it can always be better.
What's your approach
to talent,
especially when you have to say no?
Well, saying no is very hard.
You know, these are people
who I not only respect,
but I care about in a lot of cases,
A fast no is the second
best thing to a yes
because it enables great
partners to move on
and find the thing that
is gonna be explosive
and can be a big hit.
Speaking of hits and
misses, cue the pence of music
because Disney's financials
have had some of both lately.
Revenue for movies and
linear TV has been down
and while Disney's streaming
business turned a profit
for the first time in 2024,
it's still well behind Netflix.
Some of the critics would say
that Disney Entertainment
is in a tough spot. How
do you see it?
It depends on, you know, what
moment in time we are growing.
All of those important metrics.
I can't speak to whether
expectations keep being set beyond
where we're delivering, but the growth
is there.
The competition is fierce
between Netflix and Apple
and Amazon and YouTube,
Netflix is arguably the one to chase.
How are you different from Netflix?
Well, it's very clear.
Netflix has done an extraordinary job
and they really have developed
into a utility, right?
They, in many situations, you know,
that is the place you
go when you don't know
what you wanna watch, but
you're gonna watch tv.
Would you say there's
a difference in terms
of quality versus quantity as well?
Oh, no question. No question.
We've never been in the quantity,
you know, we're not trying
to create a fire hose of
content we're trying to curate.
That said, Netflix shares
are up 80 times since the start
of the streaming boom.
Disney shares have about doubled
and Netflix's market cap is about
twice the size of Disney's.
What's your message to investors?
Both services can coexist
and I think we keep making
quarterly gains, both in terms
of revenue and oi in terms of
subscribers and engagements.
Virtually impossible to start from scratch
and it's also really difficult
to do it without that IP
Hard cut to interior hospital.
Well, a hospital set anyway.
While traditional TV networks
have struggled lately,
they're also home to
some enduring hits like
ABC's Grey's Anatomy.
So tell me your symptoms.
The long running drama is
now in its 22nd season.
Here's a Grey's elevator.
Very famous. Elevators are
very famous on Grey's. A lot
of stuff
happens in the elevator.
A lot of stuff happens on the elevator.
I mean, if I went down, would
I want you to be the one here?
No, but I know a lot of doctors.
Okay, I know who to call.
I don't know where the bodies are.
We're looking for the
bodies. Look. Oh my God.
Well, I am sufficiently horrified.
I have to tell you that that
Grey's night was the best night
when I started watching Grey's.
Still Thursday. It's still Thursday.
Thursday. I think we've
been at every time slot.
What's your take on this
moment in time in Hollywood?
There's so much content out there,
whether it's television shows
or TikTok or whatever it is.
So it's a lot harder to grab an audience,
to hold an audience
and I think that's part
of the success of Grey's is
that we did have such a head start
and we had such a built in
audience that we've been able
to sustain even through all the noise
and all the content out there.
Disney TV is also leaning
into more global stories like
FX'ss Shogun in hopes
of pulling in more
international audiences.
The show was FX's biggest hit ever.
Hiroyuki Sanada starred
and produced, helping the show stay true
to Japanese culture.
What's your best Samurai move?
More than fight.
I like to draw the sword
because this is a very spiritual moment
than just fight.
Yeah. Did it feel like a risk?
Yes, of course our Shogun had a
70% Japanese dialogue
that's risky and Disney
is a brave company.
Do you think Shogun's success
might change how studios
and streamers approach risk?
Mm, I hope so.
Streaming service changed
their audience as well.
They want to watch real story,
drama, authenticity.
Shogun has turned out to
be a a huge success. Yeah.
And you're trying to lean into
more global and and localized
cntent.
What does that mean?
You know, what markets are on the table?
What's off the table?
Disney Plus is currently
in over 150 countries.
We are not producing local
originals in all of them.
We are picking key countries
in each of the regions
and developing original content
there.
Squid Game and the Crown are
major hits like Netflix does
seem to be way ahead in this area.
Yeah, can you catch up?
Well, I think you can. I
think you just named two shows.
We had a massive hit in Korea
with a show called Movie
That signed up, you know,
millions of subscribers.
So absolutely the value of a hit continues
to be very
meaningful.
You do have three separate apps
between Hulu and Disney Plus
and ESPN, is a Disney super app coming.
Yeah, you know what, we're
on the path to delivering
that experience all in one place
and making sure that
Disney Plus is a place
where the environment feels
like it is personalized
and specific to you.
And that is the, we're moving
because we think ultimately it's easier,
it reduces the friction.
So this is where the magic happens. Yeah.
Welcome to TV animation
where they do such great work
working on so many shows.
It's really where the magic
starts for our youngest fans.
You've spent your life on studio lots.
Does it ever get old?
Never. You're passing a stage
where some iconic film was
shot and it's just delightful.
You're reminded of an
industry that is just served
for many, many years to
just entertain people.
I grew up on Disney, so much Disney.
My kids often go to YouTube
first. How do you change that?
Well, are they going to YouTube
and engaging with Disney content?
'cause I will say we
have sometimes a number
of channels up on YouTube.
We wanna be where our fans are,
and that means third party
platforms like TikTok, Instagram,
obviously YouTube,
Things like Bluey,
things like Coco Melon.
That's not Disney ip. Does that matter?
No, I think parents
enjoy it. Kids love it.
But the attributes of a Disney story,
beloved characters. What?
It wasn't me. The music, it fits in
with our ip.
Every story doesn't have to be
based specifically on our ip,
But all of these stories
and characters could take
on a different meaning
as technology brings new challenges
and opportunities to the
entertainment business.
I've been wanting to talk about AI.
Obviously this is like
the next big disruption.
This is a company that has
prided itself on storytelling
for a hundred years
and now a computer is getting scary,
good at doing a lot of things
In terms of our premium stories
and how we think about ai,
either bending the cost curve
or helping us to be
faster, more efficient.
We are approaching all of
that together with the actors,
the writers, directors,
who are our partners,
and have very strong feelings about
what is a uniquely human story
and how to protect the
contributors in that process.
Bob talked about being
excited about the potential
for AI generated content
on Disney plus user
generated videos.
Sure. That people could also watch.
Is it still Disney magic
if it's AI created?
Disney magic is storytelling.
It doesn't have to be any one form.
So I think it is the fundamentals
of a story are Disney.
The technology has evolved rapidly
throughout the history of the company.
Technology isn't the only
pressure weighing on Disney
and its channels like ABC.
In September, late night host
Jimmy Kimmel came under fire
from the Trump administration
over remarks about Charlie
Kirk's assassination. Walden
and Bob Iger decided
to suspend Kimmel, then a few
days later, to reinstate him.
Anyway, as I was saying
before I was interrupted,
The episode raised concerns
about the industry's ability
to stand up for free speech
and many of Hollywood's
biggest names spoke out
against Kimmel's suspension. Let's talk
about Kimmel.
What happened and what
were the conversations
between you and Bob
and Jimmy?
We were thinking about
only one thing as we made
that decision very close to
his show going back up on
that Wednesday,
and that was, the situation
was extremely heated.
We wanted to take the temperature down.
We didn't think that was
gonna be possible that night,
so we hit pause to have
conversations with Jimmy.
We wanted to resolve the
situation in a certain way
to protect our employees,
to think about our audience.
Did President Trump call
you or Bob or vice versa?
Did you get any pressure
from the White House?
He did not. We did not hear from them.
There are reports that
cancellations of Disney Plus
and Hulu spiked after the incident.
How do you balance free speech
and creative freedom
in a polarized climate?
Well, I think those reports
were highly exaggerated.
You saw the number of
subscribers that we reported
during our earnings.
We had a very strong quarter.
I think that this issue
is firmly in our past
For Walden, handling.
the Kimmel crisis might
have been good practice for
what could be her next role.
Disney has clearly struggled
with its succession planning in the past,
Disney has considered a co-CEO structure
to replace Bob Iger.
We, what's the succession plan?
What progress has been
made on a successor?
Will it be someone inside
or outside? Can you share
any? It'll be someone great.
The biggest story in Hollywood now is
who's gonna be the next CEO of Disney?
And you know, there are pundits
and analysts all over TV
and podcasts talking
about who's in the lead
and you're one of the leading candidates.
So they're often talking about you.
They're often pitting you
against your colleagues.
What's it been like for you on the inside?
Well, being pit against my
colleagues, I don't appreciate
because we have incredible relationships.
We are a very tight organization,
but I have enormous faith in
where this company's going.
There is a world class
team at this company
who is navigating the
path into the future.
What is the future of Disney?
The company is so big,
you might as well ask,
what's the future of entertainment?
It's a tricky question.
What's your hope for Grey's?
Whatever happens, happens.
I've long ago stopped trying to predict
or hope what happens?
I think the business has gotten harder
and I think that there
are opportunities now
and there are less slots.
We have been very
traumatized by the pandemic
and I think by the strikes
and I think by the political climate
and I sort of feel that everybody
is unifying in a really beautiful way
and trying to make products
that uplift and unite.
You have been at the center
of so many reinventions,
you know, obviously TV streaming.
Now there's AI.
What do you think it's gonna take
to lead a hundred year old
company into the next century?
Well, I think it's a lot of
the things we're doing right
now, understanding the
consumer, being able
to personalize experiences,
building out our technology
product, creating features again
that are unique to this IP
that will delight people the
same way they are delighted
when they go to our parks.
Is the golden age of
entertainment behind us,
or is the best still yet to come?
Oh, I don't think it's behind us at all.
I think even in a world of ai,
more premium are the best stories
and the best life experiences.
I think we're gonna continue doing that.
It's gonna mean something
to future generations
and especially to parents
who wanna pass down
that experience to their own kids.
So the best is yet to come?
I think so, absolutely.
And close. Yes. And end. And fade.